PAST EDITIONS
Jadavpur University Model United Nations started its illustrious journey in 2015. Held in the campus itself, the first edition was inaugurated by Chief Guest Mr. Yuri Kolobanov, the Consulate General of the Russian Federation in Kolkata, and simulated three committees - United Nations General Assembly Fourth Committee (Special Political and Decolonisation), the United Nations Security Council and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. The three days of committee emphasizing on debate, policy formulations and working papers was a huge success and established Jadavpur University Model United Nations 2019 as the best in India's Eastern MUN circuit. The second edition of JUMUN held in 2016, welcomed 1500 delegates and Executive Board members from India and six other countries and the six committees that made up the conference saw discussions and debates on a number of grave issues including international terrorism and discrimination based on sexual identity. JUMUN 2016 broke the wheel by simulating new committees like the Lok Sabha(which deliberatd upon the land ordinance passed by the Government of India and Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code), the Asian Maritime Organisation for Security and Cooperation, a concept committee which drafted the body's mandate, constitution and voting powers, and the International Press. The third edition of JUMUN held in 2017, was inaugurated by Chief Guest, Mr. Damien Syed, the French Consular General and hosted around 5000 people. The six councils in the third edition discussed Sustainable Development Goals, climate change, combating of sectarian violence in Islam, the use of force regime and need for comprehensive healthcare policy in India. 

The fourth edition of JUMUN held in 2018 had a number of diverse committees including a Fifth World Conference on Women, a Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, the flagship committee which was Department for Exiting the European Union, Lok Sabha, International Press, General Assembly on Disarmament and International Security and the Security Council. JUMUN 2018 also believed in expanding the work of our industrious team beyond the committee rooms in order to address the real issues plaguing our society and therefore, we launched the Civil Society Initiative, under which we had campaigns like Pot a Plant, free education to underprivileged children at different NGOs, books and clothes donation drive and a sanitary pad drive. To aid us in our mission, we also started the JUMUN Juniors' Initiative, which was about including school students in the process of organizing an MUN and in turn, helping them, by grooming them through free workshops and providing exclusive research material. We are proud to announce that as collaborators we had Responsible Charity, Panacea, the UN Information Centre in Bhutan and the West Bengal Federation of United Nations Association. Our aim has always been generating awareness about international laws, human rights and challenges faced by the world and by hosting this three day conference, we wish to contribute as a part of the global community and make the world a better place. In the process of organizing the past four editions, we have worked hard with the hope that our efforts are channelized in the right direction and our dedication can contribute to making a difference. This year we shall work harder to achieve the same


THIS YEAR
The Fifth Edition of JUMUN that is going to be held in 2019, promises each participant a variety of comittees to choose from. These committees have been brainstormed about and guarenteed to be one of the most exhilarating and exciting of all committes.This edition of JUMUN emphasizes on the uniqueness of each comitttee that we will present to the audience. The comittees this year include the Seneca Falls Conference, the Shangri La Dialogue and UNCTAD, all of which shall be hosted for the first time in the history of Model United Nations. We aim to create an atmosphere of learning along with the healthy spirit of competition. The quality and power of each of these commitees should not be undermined. 

We shall also aim to continue with our Civil Society Initiative and JUMUNJI. These have stayed as our heritage traditions that in turn have added a greater social value to the conference as a whole. The Civil society initiative aims at enhancing the society in general and giving back what we take. The JUMUNJI is a student initiative for our young minds in schools, they are given the chance to embark on a journey of learning about diplomacy and also are encouraged to emerge as individual leaders, who would be the future of this sprawling nation.

COMMITTEES
IP

Press has come a long way in advocating the fundamental right of freedom of expression. International Press is integral for the world because it is a primary source for exchange of information that disregards all borders. Media has developed over the years and now it is imperative to help us know what is happening around us. We form our opinions based on the information we receive from the press, for we all know that we cannot take a stand without a proper assessment of the situation.

 AIPPM 

India is a subcontinent in itself and the reason is clear: it is a country which has more than just geographical diversity. Undeniably, governing a nation full of differences and diversities is not the task of one man alone. It takes an army of men with the strength to win a war, but it takes men with the sword of diplomacy to run a nation. The All India Political Parties Meet is one of its kind , the framework of this comittee is very different from the regular Indian comittees. Often convened to deliberate upon matters of urgency, AIPPM offers you the platform to weave together myriad views from all across the political spectrum.

 Seneca Falls Conference

 The American women's rights movement began with a meeting of reformers in Seneca Falls, New York, in 1848. Out of that first convention came a historic document, the 'Declaration of Sentiments,' which demanded equal social status and legal rights for women, including the right to vote. With this historical achievement and vision in mind; Jadavpur University Model United Nations, brings to you a committee that can stir you to the core, a committee that lives and breathes for a cause, a committee for the equity, tolerance and empowerment in you, a committee for people all over the world - Seneca Falls Conference.

UNHCR

The United Nations High Commissioner For Refugees (UNHCR), created in the wake of the Second World War's tragedies in 1950, seeks to address the modern dimensions of the age-old refugee problem. It is mandated to aid refugees in their local reintegration, voluntary repatriation or resettlement in a third country.The United Nations High Commissioner For Refugees (UNHCR), created in the wake of the Second World War's tragedies in 1950, seeks to address the modern dimensions of the age-old refugee problem. It is mandated to aid refugees in their local reintegration, voluntary repatriation or resettlement in a third country.

UNSC

The United Nations Security Council is the premier decision-making organ of what is considered the highest shrine of international diplomacy. Its powers include the establishment of peacekeepingoperations, the establishment of international sanctions, and the authorization of military action through Security Council resolutions; it is the only UN body with the authority to issue binding resolutions to member states. The Security Council held its first session on 17 January 1946.Originally tasked with the responsibility of maintaining peace and security of the world, the Security Council since the 1990s has dramatically expanded its activities to grapple with the social, political and technological changes.

 UNCTD

We stand at a juncture where we need policies that will eliminate poverty from its roots and provide universal access to a decent standard of living, inclusive of basic healthcare, food, etc The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, where each participant shall be given the opportunity to engage in  productive sessions focusing on formulating policies related to development in trade and commerce, emphasizing to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals while using tools such as trade , investment , finance and technology in order to do so . It falls on us to assist the developing nations access the benefits of a global economy.It aims to serve the greater good, with the goal of prosperity in mind.

 Shangri La Dialogue

Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi led the strongest-ever line-up of ministers at Asia's premier defence summit. 
Shangri La Dialogue is one of the most exhilarating and thrilling committee, it demands your patience, skill and ability to deal with the kernel of policy and security of a Nation.Since its launch in 2002 the Dialogue has built confidence and fostered practical security cooperation, by facilitating easy communication and fruitful contact among the region’s most important defence and security policymakers.


Jadavpur University came into being during the era of revolution in bengal . Being one of the places known for varied opinions , this esteem shrine of education stands for knowledge with no bounds . The colourful campus provides evidence to what diversity would actually look like . Students here not only excel in academics but also in diverse art forms . One could witness discussions going on in every nook and corner of the campus in just one single visit . This campus is a hub in itself for youth and their vast minds . Being an institution that  not only thinks about the present but also the future , students here thrive to do their part in shaping the same . One of their initiatives to secure a better world is the Model United Nations Conference . 
    Model United Nations Conference is an educational simulation and/or academic activity in which students can learn about diplomacy , international relations and the United nations apart from other varied areas . An all encompassing educational conference that not only imparts and increases ones knowledge but also develops critical thinking , teamwork and leadership skills. This not only prepares an individual to think responsibly but also encourages them to participate in the world building process . 
 Jadavpur University Model United Nations ( JUMUN ) has almost become a ritual.  Being held consecutively for the last four years , this year is no different . With new ideas  , committees and fresh outlook JUMUN is ready to embrace its 5th edition in 2019 . Like every year this will be a three day conference that will delve into diplomacy , politics and knowledge .The fifth edition will bring with it 8 committees with various accolades that will be awarded only to the best . 
  Every year our delegates come in from schools amd colleges which ranges to more than 40 institutions . The vast reach of JUMUN is such because it is not restricted to India and  encompasses International delagates from other countries . JUMUN is perfect for anyone who is intrested in politics because this aims at a wholistic development of a first timer and provides a  brilliant arena of  competition for the veterans . JUMUN has become what it is today because it is not like every second educational competition . It is a learning procress that is required for everyone to grow , develop and create  .
